# Nutrient enrichment can increase the thermal performance of Galápagos seaweeds

This code repository contains all data and analysis for the associated manuscript

**Authors:** Haley E. Capone*, Margarita Brandt, Paul W. Gabrielson, John F. Bruno

**Journal:** Marine Ecology Progress Series

**Acknowledgements & Funding:** We thank the Galápagos National Park Directorate for granting scientific investigation permit PC-27-22 to conduct this research, and the Minister of Environment, Water and Ecological Transition for the genetic permit MAAE-DNB-CM-2021-0174 that allowed us to sequence the collected seaweed specimens. The Galapagos Science Center provided resource and facility provisioning (with special thanks to S. Sotamba, J. Sotamba, C. Vintimilla, and K. McKerr). Thanks to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and partner institution Universidad San Francisco de Quito USFQ for their support of this study, and associated students (S. Mantell, E. R. Srebnik, C. Parker, F. Rivera, N. De la Torre), who contributed both to field and laboratory-based data collection. This work was part of Haley Capone’s Master’s thesis and is available as a preprint at https://cdr.lib.unc.edu/concern/dissertations/x059ck071 and funded by the National Science Foundation (OCE #2128592 to JFB and MB).


**ABSTRACT:** Thermal sensitivity in ectothermic organisms is often contingent on environmental factors and the availability of resources, such as nutrients, can influence the thermal tolerance of primary producers. This context-dependency may explain varied responses (e.g., among species) to global warming and is thus important to consider when forecasting the structure and functioning of future marine ecosystems. This study measured the effect of nutrient concentration on the thermal sensitivity of four genera of Galápagos seaweeds (*Ulva*, *Caulerpa*, *Padina*, and *Ochtodes*), estimated as the (*T*<sub>opt</sub>), performance maximum (*P*<sub>max</sub>), activation energy (*E*), and deactivation energy (*E*<sub>h</sub>).  Thermal parameters were quantified by modeling thermal performance curves (TPCs) for net photosynthesis under both ambient and nutrient-enriched conditions. Our findings revealed variation in Topt among genera, ranging from 27.6 to 36 °C. Nutrient additions enhanced Topt by approximately 2 °C for two of the taxa (*Padina* spp. and *Caulerpa* *racemosa*). Ambient net photosynthesis and respiration rates across all genera were compared; thermal optima of net photosynthesis were lower than those for respiration. Thus, further warming could reduce net primary productivity with potentially far-reaching implications for marine food webs.
